OSDOCS#10130: Doc support for ARM control plane with x86 compute nodes (#76246)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/multi-architecture-creating-x86_64-bootimage.adoc

//Module included in the following assemblies
//
//post_installation_configuration/cluster-tasks.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="multi-architecture-creating-x86-64-bootimage_{context}"]

= Creating a 64-bit x86 boot image using the Azure image gallery

The following procedure describes how to manually generate a 64-bit x86 boot image.

.Prerequisites

* You installed the Azure CLI (`az`).
* You created a single-architecture Azure installer-provisioned cluster with the multi-architecture installer binary.

.Procedure
. Log in to your Azure account:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az login
----

> . Create a storage account and upload the `x86_64` virtual hard disk (VHD) to your storage account. The {product-title} installation program creates a resource group, however, the boot image can also be uploaded to a custom named resource group:

Reviewer: @sr1kar99 I assume you saw this suggestion?

> . Create a storage account and upload the `x86_64` virtual hard disk (VHD) to your storage account. The {product-title} installation program creates a resource group, however, the boot image can also be uploaded to a custom named resource group:

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az storage account create -n ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} -g ${RESOURCE_GROUP} -l westus --sku Standard_LRS <1>
----
+
<1> The `westus` object is an example region.
+
. Create a storage container using the storage account you generated:
+
[source,terminal]
+
----
$ az storage container create -n ${CONTAINER_NAME} --account-name ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME}
----
. You must use the {product-title} installation program JSON file to extract the URL and `x86_64` VHD name:
.. Extract the `URL` field and set it to `RHCOS_VHD_ORIGIN_URL` as the file name by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ RHCOS_VHD_ORIGIN_URL=$(oc -n openshift-machine-config-operator get configmap/coreos-bootimages -o jsonpath='{.data.stream}' | jq -r '.architectures.x86_64."rhel-coreos-extensions"."azure-disk".url')
----
.. Extract the `x86_64` VHD name and set it to `BLOB_NAME` as the file name by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ BLOB_NAME=rhcos-$(oc -n openshift-machine-config-operator get configmap/coreos-bootimages -o jsonpath='{.data.stream}' | jq -r '.architectures.x86_64."rhel-coreos-extensions"."azure-disk".release')-azure.x86_64.vhd
----

> . Generate a shared access signature (SAS) token. Use this token to upload the {op-system} VHD to your storage container with the following commands:

Reviewer: I like consistency. 
```suggestion
. Generate a shared access signature (SAS) token. Use this token to upload the {op-system} VHD to your storage container by running the following commands:
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ end=`date -u -d "30 minutes" '+%Y-%m-%dT%H:%MZ'`
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sas=`az storage container generate-sas -n ${CONTAINER_NAME} --account-name ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} --https-only --permissions dlrw --expiry $end -o tsv`
----

> . Copy the {op-system} VHD into the storage container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Copy the {op-system} VHD into the storage container by running the following commands:
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az storage blob copy start --account-name ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} --sas-token "$sas" \
 --source-uri "${RHCOS_VHD_ORIGIN_URL}" \
 --destination-blob "${BLOB_NAME}" --destination-container ${CONTAINER_NAME}
----
+

> You can check the status of the copying process with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the status of the copying process by running the following commands:```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az storage blob show -c ${CONTAINER_NAME} -n ${BLOB_NAME} --account-name ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} | jq .properties.copy
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
{
 "completionTime": null,
 "destinationSnapshot": null,
 "id": "1fd97630-03ca-489a-8c4e-cfe839c9627d",
 "incrementalCopy": null,
 "progress": "17179869696/17179869696",
 "source": "https://rhcos.blob.core.windows.net/imagebucket/rhcos-411.86.202207130959-0-azure.aarch64.vhd",
 "status": "success", <1>
 "statusDescription": null
}
----
+

> <1> If the status parameter displays the `success` object, the copying process is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> If the `status` parameter displays `success`, the copying process is complete.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

. Create an image gallery using the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az sig create --resource-group ${RESOURCE_GROUP} --gallery-name ${GALLERY_NAME}
----
Use the image gallery to create an image definition. In the following example command, `rhcos-x86_64` is the name of the image definition.
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ az sig image-definition create --resource-group ${RESOURCE_GROUP} --gallery-name ${GALLERY_NAME} --gallery-image-definition rhcos-x86_64 --publisher RedHat --offer x86_64 --sku x86_64 --os-type linux --architecture x86_64 --hyper-v-generation V2

Reviewer 2: @sr1kar99 sorry, I missed this as well. `--architecture x86_64` should be `--architecture x64` 

Everything else in the command is correct:
```
$ az sig image-definition create --resource-group ${RESOURCE_GROUP} --gallery-name ${GALLERY_NAME} --gallery-image-definition rhcos-x86_64 --publisher RedHat --offer x86_64 --sku x86_64 --os-type linux --architecture x64 --hyper-v-generation V2
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az storage blob copy start --account-name ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} --sas-token "$sas" \
 --source-uri "${RHCOS_VHD_ORIGIN_URL}" \
 --destination-blob "${BLOB_NAME}" --destination-container ${CONTAINER_NAME}
----
+
You can check the status of the copying process by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az storage blob show -c ${CONTAINER_NAME} -n ${BLOB_NAME} --account-name ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} | jq .properties.copy
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
{
 "completionTime": null,
 "destinationSnapshot": null,
 "id": "1fd97630-03ca-489a-8c4e-cfe839c9627d",
 "incrementalCopy": null,
 "progress": "17179869696/17179869696",
 "source": "https://rhcos.blob.core.windows.net/imagebucket/rhcos-411.86.202207130959-0-azure.aarch64.vhd",
 "status": "success", <1>
 "statusDescription": null
}
----
+
<1> If the `status` parameter displays the `success` object, the copying process is complete.

. Create an image gallery by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az sig create --resource-group ${RESOURCE_GROUP} --gallery-name ${GALLERY_NAME}
----

> Use the image gallery to create an image definition. In the following example command, `rhcos-x86_64` is the name of the image definition.

Reviewer: > `rhcos-x86_64` is the name of the image definition.
Should this be a call out <1> in the command?

If so, 
```suggestion
Use the image gallery to create an image definition by running the following command:
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

//Module included in the following assemblies
//
//post_installation_configuration/cluster-tasks.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="multi-architecture-creating-x86-64-bootimage_{context}"]
= Creating a 64-bit x86 boot image using the Azure image gallery

The following procedure describes how to manually generate a 64-bit x86 boot image.

.Prerequisites

* You installed the Azure CLI (`az`).
* You created a single-architecture Azure installer-provisioned cluster with the multi-architecture installer binary.

.Procedure

. Log in to your Azure account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az login
----

> . Create a storage account and upload the `x86_64` virtual hard disk (VHD) to your storage account. The {product-title} installation program creates a resource group. However, the boot image can also be uploaded to a custom named resource group:

Reviewer 3: I think this step still needs to mention running a command, even if it's not the last sentence in the step:
```suggestion
. Create a storage account and upload the `x86_64` virtual hard disk (VHD) to your storage account by running the following command. The {product-title} installation program creates a resource group. However, the boot image can also be uploaded to a custom named resource group:
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az storage account create -n ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} -g ${RESOURCE_GROUP} -l westus --sku Standard_LRS <1>
----
+
<1> The `westus` object is an example region.
+
. Create a storage container using the storage account you generated by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
+
----
$ az storage container create -n ${CONTAINER_NAME} --account-name ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME}
----

> . You must use the {product-title} installation program JSON file to extract the URL and `x86_64` VHD name:

Reviewer 3: The first sentence of each step needs to be in the imperative mood [per the ISG](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=format-procedures#writing-steps):
```suggestion
. Use the {product-title} installation program JSON file to extract the URL and `x86_64` VHD name:
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az storage blob copy start --account-name ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} --sas-token "$sas" \
 --source-uri "${RHCOS_VHD_ORIGIN_URL}" \
 --destination-blob "${BLOB_NAME}" --destination-container ${CONTAINER_NAME}
----
+
You can check the status of the copying process by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az storage blob show -c ${CONTAINER_NAME} -n ${BLOB_NAME} --account-name ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} | jq .properties.copy
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
{
 "completionTime": null,
 "destinationSnapshot": null,
 "id": "1fd97630-03ca-489a-8c4e-cfe839c9627d",
 "incrementalCopy": null,
 "progress": "17179869696/17179869696",
 "source": "https://rhcos.blob.core.windows.net/imagebucket/rhcos-411.86.202207130959-0-azure.aarch64.vhd",
 "status": "success", <1>
 "statusDescription": null
}
----
+
<1> If the `status` parameter displays the `success` object, the copying process is complete.

. Create an image gallery by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az sig create --resource-group ${RESOURCE_GROUP} --gallery-name ${GALLERY_NAME}
----

> Use the image gallery to create an image definition by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: Just checking - is this meant to be a separate action from step 7? It seems like it's a significant enough action, in which case it should be its own step IMO:
```suggestion
. Use the image gallery to create an image definition by running the following command:
```

Author: Makes sense to keep it as a separate step.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az sig image-definition create --resource-group ${RESOURCE_GROUP} --gallery-name ${GALLERY_NAME} --gallery-image-definition rhcos-x86_64 --publisher RedHat --offer x86_64 --sku x86_64 --os-type linux --architecture x64 --hyper-v-generation V2
----
+
In this example command, `rhcos-x86_64` is the name of the image definition.
. To get the URL of the VHD and set it to `RHCOS_VHD_URL` as the file name, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ RHCOS_VHD_URL=$(az storage blob url --account-name ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} -c ${CONTAINER_NAME} -n "${BLOB_NAME}" -o tsv)
----

> . Use the `RHCOS_VHD_URL` file, your storage account, resource group, and image gallery to create an image version by running the following command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Use the `RHCOS_VHD_URL` file, your storage account, resource group, and image gallery to create an image version by running the following command:
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ az sig image-version create --resource-group ${RESOURCE_GROUP} --gallery-name ${GALLERY_NAME} --gallery-image-definition rhcos-arm64 --gallery-image-version 1.0.0 --os-vhd-storage-account ${STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME} --os-vhd-uri ${RHCOS_VHD_URL}
----
+
In this example, `1.0.0` is the image version.

> . Your `x86_64` boot image is now generated. You can access the ID of your image by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: Same comment as above about the first sentence being written in the imperative mood. Here's one way to rewrite this but keep all of the same information:
```suggestion
. Access the ID of the generated `x86_64` boot image by running the following command:
```

If the "you can" is meant to indicate that this is optional, I'd add that at the beginning of the step:
```suggestion
. Optional: Access the ID of the generated `x86_64` boot image by running the following command:
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.
